# Production and capacity planning methods for flexible and reconfigurable assembly systems
### *PhD Thesis*
## Written by Dávid Gyulai

The increasing diversity of product portfolios and difficult predictability of customer order streams introduce new, complex challenges in production management, as companies often need to apply special, advanced capacity and production planning methods to achieve and keep the desired level of internal efficiency. In case a company offers a diverse ---regarding both volume and mix--- product portfolio, the commonly applied production system structures are often inflexible to provide cost-efficient operation in the different stages of products' lifecycles.

The thesis introduces new models and methods to solve production and capacity planning problems, focusing on assembly systems, and utilizing the advantages of different system structures and resource types (dedicated, flexible, reconfigurable). The primary aim of the presented research is to define and elaborate new planning methods that support matching production capacities with the order stream on each level (strategic, tactical, operational) of the planning hierarchy, even in case a diverse product portfolio is to be managed. The methods are capable of considering the external, and also the internal, technology-related factors and constraints to achieve cost-efficient production.

Chapter 1 defines the topic of the thesis, and the motivation of the research. In Chapter 2, a literature review is provided with an introduction of relevant, state-of-the-art methods. Chapter 3 introduces a new, hierarchical capacity management framework, focusing on modular assembly systems, and providing cost-efficient production plans on each level of the planning hierarchy. The models of the framework are primarily defined so as to meet the requirements of manual assembly systems, and utilize their scalability achieved via changing the amount of allocated human labor, or the number of applied modules. Chapter 4 discusses the capacity management of reconfigurable, robotic assembly cells, and introduces a new method that is aimed at supporting the design and management of cells by combining the application of mathematical and simulation models. Chapter 5 focuses on robust production and capacity planning, related to manually operated flexible assembly lines. A new, simulation-based optimization method is presented, which utilizes quasi-real-time data to represent the actual status of the production system, and to project its future expected behavior, based on realistic production scenarios. In this way, information about the actual capacity requirements is obtained, and used in mathematical models to calculate robust plans in a proactive way. Chapter 6 summarizes the results presented in the dissertation, and introduces the methods' application in practice.
